# Project3
Project 3: Interactive Visualization

For our project, we created an interactive plot using the Bight 18 Sediment Toxicity Water Quality dataset from The Southern California Coastal Water Research Project (SCCWRP).

The dataset is available on this Github page as well as <a href=https://dataportal.sccwrp.org/datasets/sccwrp::bight-18-sediment-toxicity-water-quality/explore>here</a>.

We chose to display pH levels recorded at various sites within Bight 18 over various timepoints (which was a feature in the data ranging from -10 to 10. This was achieved using a dot plot, and one or more site readings can be toggled on and off using a drop-down menu which allows users of the plot to select one or more sites to display pH readings recorded at different time points. We experimented with a few different variations of dot plots and line plots, but ultimately setted on the dot plots as we felt it was most easy to interpret. We also felt that it made sense to encode the sites as different colors, such that when different pH readings of sites were overlaid on each other, it would be easier to distinguish between them. In addition to the dropdown to select sites, we also felt that using a tooltip on mouseover to display pH reading and timepoint would also be useful to users of our visualization.

Our team met to brainstorm ideas, and each member presented an idea for a data source as well as their proposed method of visualizing the data. We settled on Alison's choice of dataset (linked above). Our group settled on Mengkong's choice of visualization style after workshopping a couple of different ideas for our prototype, and Sean handled pushing the code to Github and deploying the Github pages site. We held zoom calls throughout the week where we worked through the D3.js coding process together, and went through a few different iterations of the plot before we decided on the finished product. We spent approximately 12 people hours on this project, and the most difficult part was probably coming up with out initial topic, although the actual coding in D3.js proved to be a bit of a learning curve, as well as deciding on style/aesthetics of the plot and interactive features. 
